Fremennik Trials

Starting out
    Talk to Brundt. (Chat 3-1-1) (2-3-1-1 if started -finished or not- Mountain Daughter)
    The trials may be done in any order, however this quick guide will show you the fastest order.
Olaf the Bard, Manni the Reveller and Sigli the Huntsman
    Talk to Manni the Reveller while in the longhall. (Chat 1)
    Take a Beer tankard off the table (not empty beer).
    Talk to Olaf just east of the longhall. (Chat 1)
    Talk to Sigli the Huntsman near the entrance of Rellekka. (Chat 1-1)
    To get a lyre, kill Lanzig, (1/17 drop rate) or make it yourself. Either way you must enchant it.
Option 1: Killing Lanzig (recommended)
    Kill Lanzig until he drops the lyre.
Option 2: Making the Lyre Yourself
    Chop a branch and fletch an unstrung lyre.
    Talk to Lalli. (Chat: 1)
    Talk to Askeladden for a pet rock.
    Pick a cabbage, potato, and onion from the farming patch.
    Talk to Lalli, and offer the pet rock.
    Use the rock, cabbage, potato, and onion on the stew.
    Talk to Lalli.


Seers' Village
    Spin the golden fleece into a ball of golden wool while in Seers' Village, and use the golden wool on your unstrung Lyre.
    Talk to the poison salesman to buy low alcohol beer for 250 coins.
    Buy a regular beer if you forgot to take a Beer tankard.


Back to Rellekka
    Use a Rellekka House teleport to return, or simply walk back. If walking, left-click on your talisman to check if the Draugen is nearby on your way. If so, kill him.
    Give the beer to the council workman by the bridge south of Rellekka.
    Walk a bit west until you see a small narrow path heading south into the water.
    Use your raw shark on the strange altar to enchant your Lyre.
    Follow your talisman by left-clicking on it and kill the Draugen now if you haven't already.
    Once done, head back into Rellekka and talk to Sigli at the entrance.
    Use a tinderbox on your strange object. Head to the outside of the longhall to the eastern wall, use it on the pipe.
    Enter the north-eastern back door of the longhall, walk onto the stage and play your Lyre.
    Exit the back door, enter the main long hall, take a Keg of Beer off the table.
    Use your Low Alcohol Keg on the Keg of Beer.
    Challenge Manni to a drinking contest (Chat 1).


Sigmund the Merchant and Swensen the Navigator

    Talk to Sigmund in the market. (Chat 1)
    Talk to the sailor.
    Talk to Olaf the Bard.
    Talk to Yrsa
    Talk to Brundt the Chieftain.
    Talk to Sigli the Huntsmanl.
    Talk to Skulgrimen.
    Talk to the fisherman.
    Talk to Swensen the Navigator. (Chat 1)
    Talk to Swensen again. (Chat 2, 1)
    Climb down the ladder and take the South, West, East, North, South, East, then North portals.
    Talk to Peer the Seer.
    Talk to Thorvald the Warrior.
    Talk to Manni the Reveller.
    Talk to Thora the Barkeep.
    Talk to Askeladden and pay him 5,000 coins. (Chat 1)
    Head back and talk to (in order): Thora, Manni, Thorvald, Peer, Swensen, Fisherman, Skulgrimen, Sigli, Brundt, Yrsa, Olaf, Sailor, Sigmund.

Thorvald the Warrior
    Head over to Peer the Seer and drop any items you wish to use in the Thorvald fight - dramen branch and knife, potions, food, any jewellery, etc (note: you have 60 seconds until they're visible to other players).
    Talk to Peer the Seer (Chat 1, 1) and then pick up the items you dropped.
    Talk to Thorvald just north of the longhall.
    Climb down the ladder. If you have a knife and dramen branch, cut it into a staff now.
    Fight the first 3 forms of Koschei the Deathless without weapons, armour, or runes.
    Let the 4th form kill you, it will hit you very rapidly. (This is safe for Hardcore Ironmen)

Peer the Seer
    Talk to Peer the Seer in the SW corner of the market (Chat 1).
    He will deposit all your items.
    Enter the west door to his house, read the riddle.
    Each line of the riddle gives you one letter of a four-letter word.
    Possible answers are: FIRE, LIFE, MAGE, MIND, TIME, TREE, WIND
    Climb upstairs and search / study: south-western cupboard, unicorn and bull heads, southern chest and the northern bookcase(bucket, wooden disk, red disk, jug, red herring).
    Use the red herring on the cooking range.
    Use the sticky red goop on the wooden disk.
    Climb down the eastern ladder and use the two red disks on the abstract mural.
    Return upstairs and use the bucket on the tap by the cooking range.
    Use the full bucket on the jug.
    Use the jug on the drain.
    Use the 2/5ths bucket on the empty jug.
    Refill the bucket.
    Use the full bucket on the 2/3rds jug.
    Use the 4/5ths bucket on the chest with the scale.
    Fill the vase with water and add the lid.
    Use the vase on the frozen table.
    Use the frozen key on the cooking range.
    You can now leave by the eastern building door.
    Finishing up
    Talk to Brundt the Chieftain.
    Quest complete!


Finishing Up
    Talk to Elena.
    Talk to King Lathas. (Chat: 1)
    Quest complete!



Cold War
Level Requirements: 10 Hunter, 30 Agility, 30 Crafting, 34 Construction, 15 Thieving
Items: 10 Oak planks (un-noted), 10 Steel nails, Hammer,Spade, Plank, Silk, Steel bar, Swamp tar,5 Feathers (Regular), Mahogany plank, Leather, Raw cod
Other Requirements: Access to a crafting table 3
Recommended: Lumbridge Teleport, Ardougne Teleport, Ardougne Cloak 1, Dramen staff, Food

Items needed: 10 Oak planks (unnoted), 10 steel nails, a hammer and a spade
Getting Started
    Talk to Larry. (Chat 1)
    Talk to Larry again. (Chat 1-1)

Iceberg
    Talk to Larry.
    Use oak plank on firm snow patch.
    Use your spade on the newly built hut to cover it in snow.
    Talk to Larry to enter the bird hide.
    Note: Take note of the emotes the left penguin is doing. (you will need this later, you can re-enter the snow bird hide to watch again before the next step if needed.)
    Talk to Larry. (Chat 1)
    Travel back to Rellekka by boat. (Chat 1)
    Talk to Larry once on the dock.
    Read the clockwork book.

Clockwork Penguin
Items needed: A regular plank, a steel bar, and a piece of silk, A Crafting table 3 or better in your POH .

    Go to your POH and Click your Crafting Table 3 to make a clockwork mechanism.
    Click on the table again and select clockwork toy and then clockwork penguin.
    Return to Ardougne and talk to Larry. (Chat 1-1)
    Talk to Larry once on the iceberg. (Chat 2-1)
    Suit Up!
    Return to Ardougne Zoo once again.
    Unequip cape and weapons and use the tuxedo-time option on Larry.
    Enter the penguin pen and talk to the penguin.
    Use the greeting emotes from earlier.
    Read the mission report and exit the pen.
    Talk to Larry so he gets you out of the suit.

Incognito
Items needed: Ring of charos OR Raw cod

    Talk to Larry in Fred the Farmer's sheep pen in Lumbridge.
    Use the tuxedo-time option on Larry.
    Talk to the penguins who are disguised as a sheep.
    Do the greeting emotes.
    Exit the penguin suit by talking to Larry.
    Talk to Larry again so he teleports you to the Zoo. (Chat 1)
    Use the tuxedo-time option on Larry.
    Enter the penguin pen and talk to penguin. If using Ring of charos(a), make sure it is equipped. (Chat 1-2)
    Exit the suit by talking to Larry.
    Talk to Larry.

Intelligence
Items needed: Swamp tar and 5 Feathers

    Go back to Fred the Farmer's sheep pen.
    Use the tuxedo-time option on Larry
    Talk to the sheep penguin.
    Talk to Larry to exit suit.
    Talk to Fred the Farmer (Chat options 3,1)
    Get back into the Penguin suit and talk to the Sheep Penguin. (Chat option 2)
    Talk to Larry again to get teleported to the iceberg. (Chat 1)
    Talk to Larry once at the iceberg.
    Surprise, Surprise
    Talk to KGP Agent northwest of Larry while in the penguin suit.
    Do the greeting emotes.
    Talk to Noodle.
    Talk to Noodle again. (Chat 1)
    Talk to KGP Agent.
    Click on the avalanche.
    Enter the immediate room to the west and talk to KGP Agent.
    Exit room through the west door and then through the north door.
    Walk north once outside to the agility course.

Agility Course
If you run out of food any time and do not wish to risk losing your items, you could un-equip the penguin suit, resulting in being caught and stunned, but otherwise returned to where Larry is on the Iceberg.

    Climb down the steps and into the water.
    Avoid the moving ice in the water.
    Climb the stepping stone at the end.
    Jump across the next stones reach an ice platform.
    After you manage to cross, continue on the path until you come to a shelf with icicles on it. Use the tread softly option to get across. You have to repeat this several times at each shelf. If you fail, you will be hit taking a small amount of damage.
    Next, you have to climb up the ice using a 'Cross Ice' option. This can be very annoying, as you lose 2 hitpoints each time you fail, and the failure rate is surprisingly high. If you have only the minimal agility — level 30, for example — a small amount of food may help.
    After that, you have a small cutscene of you sliding down a hill.
    Talk to Agility Instructor.
    Unequip the penguin suit and talk to Larry.

'Berg Bards
Items needed: Mahogany plank and Soft leather

    Use the tuxedo-time option on Larry and re-enter the outpost.
    Talk to the KGP Agent at the end of the main hall.
    Talk to Ping or Pong in the east room.
    Unequip the penguin suit and talk to Larry.
    Steal a cowbell from either Rellekka, Lumbridge or Zanaris dairy cow.
    Note: The Zanaris cow is closest. Use the fairy ring east of Larry to Zanaris, and the cow is just east of the wheat field. Return using fairy ring code DKS.
    Use mahogany plank on the soft leather to make penguin bongos.
    Talk to Larry east of Rellekka to return to the iceberg.
    Use the tuxedo-time option on Larry and and re-enter the outpost.
    Talk to Ping or Pong. (Chat 2)
    Operate the control panel in the main hall.
    Enter the War Room to the East.
    Conclusive Evidence
    Kill Icelords until you are able to exit the pen using the door on the West. (Up to 3 kills) (you can teleport out and return to Larry via the boat near Rellekka without there being an issue)
    Use the chasm to the east of the room to return to the surface.
    Talk to Larry.
    Quest complete!



Creature of Fenkenstrain
Quest Requirements: Priest in Peril, The Restless Ghost
Level Requirements: 20 Crafting, 25 Thieving
Item Requirements: Hammer, Amulet of Ghostspeak, Silver bar, 3 bronze wire (unnoted), Needle, 5 thread, Spade, ~100 coins
Getting started
    Read the signpost in Canifis.
    Take a pickled brain off the table in the tavern in Canifis for 50gp.
    Talk to Dr. Fenkenstrain. (Chat 1-4-4)
    Go upstairs and search the west bookcase. (Chat 4)
    Search the east bookcase and read both books. (Chat 3)
    Use the marble amulet on the obsidian amulet to form the star amulet.
    Talk to the Gardener Ghost with the Ghostspeak amulet equipped. (Chat 2)
    Dig in front of a grave marker. (Be sure the Gardener is following you, or else this step will not work.)
    Use the brain on the head.
    Go to the experiment Cave
    Use your star amulet on the easternmost memorial then push it.
    Kill a level 51 Experiment for the cavern key.
    Search the chest and climb the ladder.
    Dig at the three graves to get the torso, arms and legs.
    Talk to Dr. Fenkenstrain and give him the body parts. (Chat 1)
    Talk to Dr. Fenkenstrain again to give him the needle and thread.
    Talk to the Gardener Ghost for the shed key. (Chat 2)
    Take 3 canes from the pile of canes next to the shed.
    Search the cupboard inside the shed.
    Use the broom on the canes to get a extended brush.
    Go upstairs use the extended brush on the fireplace and for a conductor mould.
    Go to a furnace smelt a silver bar into a lightning rod.
    Go upstairs and then climb the southern ladder.
    Repair the lightning conductor.
    Talk to the doctor.
    Go upstairs, then climb the northern ladder.
    Talk to Fenkenstrain's Monster.
    Go downstairs, then pickpocket the doctor for the Ring of Charos.
    Quest complete!


Soul's Bane
Items: Rope
Recommended: Dueling Ring (Duel Arena to Glider), Glider (Digsite), Food, Antipoison, Armour
Starting out 
    Talk to Launa. (Chat 1)
    Use rope on the rift and enter it.
Room 1 - Rage
    Take a weapons from the weapon rack and kill the correct monsters (shown below).
    Use weapons from the rack to kill monsters.
        Anger sword - kills Angry unicorn.
        Anger spear - kills Angry bear.
        Anger mace - kills Angry giant rat.
        Anger battleaxe - kills Angry goblin.
    When your rage bar is full exit the east cave (cut-scene)
Room 2 - Fear
    Search all the dark holes until you defeat 5-6 reapers.
    Enter the black hole to the west.
Room 3 - Confusion 
    Defeat confusion beasts until you find the one that takes damage.
        The "fake" ones will vanish after 8 hits.
    Repeat until one door remains to get the cutscene.
    Enter the confusing door.
Room 4 - Hopelessness
    Defeat all the hopeless creatures 3 times each.
    Cross the bridge and exit the cave.
Finishing up.
    Defeat the all 3 heads.
        Use protect from missiles to take no damage. (Stay out of melee range)
    Talk to Tolna.
    Talk to Tolna again on the surface.
    Quest complete!



The Lost Tribe
Talk to Sigmund. (Chat 1)
Ask the duke, cook, Hans, Father Aereck, Donie, and Bob about what happened in the cellar. One will mention a goblin in the basement.
Talk to Sigmund again, then the duke.
Use your pickaxe on the rubble in the basement and climb through the hole.
Light your light source and grab the brooch.
Show the brooch to the duke. (Chat 3) or (Chat 4)
Talk to Reldo, the palace librarian in Varrock. (Chat 1)
Search the north-most bookshelf on the west wall for goblin symbol book.
Read through the book.
Go to Goblin Village and talk to the generals, and mediate for them until you learn goblin emotes. (Chat 1•3•2•3•3)
Go back to Lumbridge, and talk to the duke. He will tell you to investigate the caves further. (Chat 3) or (Chat 4)
Follow the map through the caves. Don't stray from it!
At the end of the cave talk to Mistag, and do your Goblin Bow in front of him.
Talk to Mistag then let him take you back to Lumbridge. (Chat 4)
Talk to the duke, he won't believe you. (Chat 3) or (Chat 4)
Pickpocket Sigmund and unlock his chest in the other room to find some HAM robes. Keep them for Death to the Dorgeshuun.
Tell the duke that Sigmund is part of Humans Against Monsters. (Chat 3)
Go to the HAM lair northwest of the castle.
Pick the lock on the trapdoor and enter the lair.
Search the crates in the first room to find the stolen silverware.
Bring the silverware to the duke. He will fire Sigmund and give you a signed peace treaty. (Chat 3)
Go into the basement again. Follow Kazgar to travel to Mistag. (Chat 2)
Talk to Mistag and a cutscene will appear.
Quest complete!


Death to the Dorgeshuun
Talk to Mistag at the Dorgeshuun mines to start the quest. (Chat 1•1)
Bring two sets of H.A.M. robes to Zanik in Lumbridge cellar. (Chat 1•1)
Zanik will follow you, if you lose her go back to the cellar. Talk to the townspeople with her following.
Talk to the Duke, Hans, Bob, Father Aereck, Man, Lumbridge Guide, goblin (west of the general store), and the shopkeeper.
Ask Zanik, "Have you seen enough of Lumbridge yet?" (Chat 2)
Ask Zanik about the mark on her head while in Lumbridge. (Chat 1)
Put on your set of HAM robes, and go to the HAM headquarters.
Talk to a H.A.M. Member or guard, and go through all the questions.
Talk to Johanhus southeast of the stage. (Chat 4•3)
Wander around the south of the stage, Zanik will spot a trapdoor.
Pick the trapdoor and go down. You'll need Zanik to kill the guards in this room to continue:
Walk west past the first guard and talk to him, then Zanik will shoot him.
Squeeze through the crack in the wall. Wait for the guard in the central corridor to walk by, then squeeze through the next crack in the wall. Run west behind the guard by the door and talk to him. then Zanik will shoot him.
When the guard in the corridor starts walking east, say, “Now!” and Zanik will snipe him.
Move to the eastern end of the central corridor, and talk to Zanik again. Tell her to wait. Then, run south to make the north-east guard follow you. Zanik will shoot him as he passes the central corridor.
For the final guard, go to the end of either of the passages, and talk to Zanik again. Tell her to wait, then go to the other passage, and distract the guard. Zanik will shoot him.
Listen at the door. A senior guard will appear and arrest you.
Pick the lock to escape the cell, then leave the hideout to find Zanik, dead. Take her body.
Go down to the Lumbridge cellar and take the south path to Juna in the Tears of Guthix cave.
Use your pickaxe to open a hole in the wall.
Talk to Juna and collect 20 Tears of Guthix to start the cutscene. Remember to have both hands free. (Chat 1)
With your full HAM robes and gear for the fight, return to the castle cellar and talk to Zanik. (Chat 1)
Go to the chicken farm near the water mill and go through the southern gate.
With both hands free, search one of the southeastern crates and Zanik will hide in it. (Chat 1•1)
Climb down the nearby ladder, and head to the western room. You will see Sigmund (level 50) and three Senior Guards (level 22).
Kill the guards first, then Sigmund. He will use protection prayers. (You can safespot the guards using Zanik, and you can safespot Sigmund using the boxes.)
Smash the nearby drilling machine, then head down the southern tunnel to the exit. A cutscene will appear.
Quest complete!


Another Slice of H.A.M.
Starting out
Speak to Ur-tag or Ambassador Alvijar in the north east part of Dorgesh-Kaan’s middle level. (Chat 1•1)
Excavation
Head to the southwest corner of the city’s middle level.
Enter the doorway with the transportation symbol on the minimap.
Walk south on the tracks and talk to Tegdak.
Dig up artifacts from the ground with the trowel (There are six artifacts total).
Use artifacts on the specimen table to clean them.
Talk to Tegdak.
To the village
Talk to Zanik. (Chat 1)
Talk to the Goblin Scribe west of Ur-tag where you started the quest.
Go speak with Oldak in the northwestern corner of the city’s lower level (There's stairs down in the house west of the scribe) to teleport to the Goblin Village.
The H.A.M-bush
Talk to General Wartface or Bentnoze. A cutscene will appear.
Run south to the ladder, stay behind the houses on the west side to not get hit.
Climb up and kill the H.A.M. Mage and H.A.M. Archer, you must use magic or ranged. Automatically will talk to the Goblin Generals. Finish the dialogue.
Getting past the guards
Go to the Lumbridge swamp cave entrance.
Talk to one of the goblin sergeants.
Read the following steps before doing them as this next section is time sensitive.
Enter the caves then climb down the nearby ladder.
As soon as you’re down, talk the sergeants and tell one of them to wait. (Chat 2)
Run to the room and enter.
Wait for 2 guards to pass.
Tell your sergeant to wait in the room. (Chat 1)
Run up to the boxes to trigger a 3rd guard and run back to the room so he doesn’t see you.
After the 3rd guard passes, ask your sergeant to follow you again. (Chat 2)
Walk (do not run) to the end of the tunnel and the final guard will attack your sergeant.
Climb down the ladder to fight Sigmund.
Wait for Sigmund to use a protection prayer first, then use the ancient mace’s special attack to knock out his prayer for the remainder of the fight.
Defeat Sigmund.
Untie Zanik.
Quest complete!


The Giant Dwarf
Starting out
Items Required: None

Speak to the Dwarven Boatman. (Chat 1•1)
Finish the conversation with Commander Veldaban. (Chat 2)
Talk to Blasidar the sculptor on the east side of Keldagrim, south of the kebab shop. (Chat 2)
Clothes fit for a king
Items Required: Weight below 20 kg, Logs, Coal, Tinderbox, 200gp (400 if you wish to obtain 2 sets of clothes)

Talk to Vermundi, the silk trader in the eastern market. (Chat 2)
Talk to the Librarian in the north-eastern corner of West Keldagrim. (Chat 2)
Climb any bookcase to find ‘Scholars Guide to Dwarven Costumes’.
If you didn't bring coal, mine 1 ore in the northeast corner of East Keldagrim.
Talk to Vermundi again. (Chat 2)
Use your coal and logs on the spinning machine then light it with a tinderbox.
Talk to Vermundi again and pay 200gp for exquisite clothes. (Chat 2•1)
Boots fit for a king
Items Required: Law and Air runes to cast Telekinetic Grab

Talk to Saro at the anvil south-west of the bank in West Keldagrim. (Chat 2)
Speak to Dromund in the house just north of the bank.
Take the left boot when he isn’t looking.
Telegrab the right boot from outside his window.
An axe fit for a king
Items Required: 3 Sapphires, an iron bar, a redberry pie (If you haven't done Knight's Sword)

Talk to Santiri at the weapon shop in north-western West Keldagrim. (Chat 2•2•2)
Use your 3 sapphires on the axe and talk to him again. (Chat 2)
Talk to Thurgo at Mudskipper Point, and give him an iron bar to repair the axe. (Chat 2•2•1) (2-3-1 if you have not completed Knight's Sword)
Note: Thurgo will require a redberry pie if you haven't already given him one during Knight's Sword
You will be given the option to immediately return to Keldagrim; do so. (Chat 1)…
Halfway There
Items Required: Exquisite Clothes, Exquisite Boots, Dwarven Battleaxe

Once in Blasidar’s house, talk to Riki the sculptor's model to give him the clothes, axe and boots.
Talk to Blasidar.
Joining the consortium 
Items Required: Various ores, Various bars, Stamina/Energy Potions

Go to the upper floor of the market and talk to the secretary of any company except the red axe/brown engine. (Chat 3). Buy the ores from Ordan in the Blast Furnace to save time.
Offer to help them.
Note: The secretaries require you to retrieve ores. Be sure to read the dialog to know what ores you need or fill your inventory with about 5 of each.
After a few (3-8) tasks, the secretary will let you speak to the director.
Note: Don't refuse tasks, if you don’t like the task simply ask again. Refusing too many tasks will gradually reduce your favour with them, and you will have to do more tasks to make up for it.
Complete some tasks for the director until he allows you to join the company (You should try telling him Blasidar sent you first, since sometimes you get accepted without getting bars else mention it when he asks you).
Note: The directors require you to retrieve bars. Be sure to read the dialog to know what bars you need or fill your inventory with about 5 of each.
Tell the director Blasidar sent you, offer your support. (Chat 3•1•1)
Go back and talk to Commander Veldaban west of the bank, he will ask if you want to attend the meeting. You may choose not to.
Quest complete!

Alfred Grimhand's Barcrawl
Scorpion Catcher